Update Aggregated Discovery for 1.26 (#3534)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-api-machinery/3352-aggregated-discovery/README.md

All clients of Kubernetes APIs must send a request to every
group-version in order to "discover" the available APIs. This causes a
storm of requests for clusters and is a source of latency and
throttling. When new types are added to the API, types will need to be
fetched again and adds an additional storm of requests. This KEP

> proposes centralizing the "discovery" mechanism into one document so

Reviewer: There's `/api` and `/apis`, so that's actually two documents? (and two requests, below).

cases for publishing the discovery document per group-version and this
KEP will solely focus on introducing the new aggregated endpoint.

Watchable discovery is also outside the scope of this KEP. Polling
with ETag support is sufficient for most users.

## Proposal

We are proposing augmenting the current discovery endpoints at `/api`
and `/apis` with an new content negotiation accept type. This endpoint

> will serve an aggregated discovery document that c ontains the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will serve an aggregated discovery document that contains the
```

   stability
4. A non-resource APIs that has to change before promotion to
   "on-by-default" must represent incompatible changes somehow to
   clients (if the version is "v1" and then we find a bug, we would
   have to rev to "v2" before "on-by-default", which means "v1" might
   not ever be exposed to end users)
5. Unversioned net new endpoints (/healthz) are effectively v1 even if
   they are "off-by-default"
6. We don't want to have multiple endpoints for discovery because it's
   confusing for users and defeats the purpose of making discovery
   more efficient, and we have a way to do that with negotiation
7. We think there is value in a new API type (APIGroupDiscovery) which
   simplifies client logic, but it comes with a small risk of not
   being correct
8. We have a good idea of what the API looks like due to a previous
   v1, so we are evolving an existing API and are not "completely
   flying blind" (i.e. implying this is really an alpha api)
9. While we aren't exactly like an unversioned new endpoint (v1 from
   start), we want to deliver the feature (improves clients) without
   giving the perception that the API is perfect

> 

Reviewer 2: Also worth noting that this API is a GET, so the client doesn't provide a schema'd type, and this is not persisted in the cluster?

Author: I think this is covered by the first point that Discovery is a non-resource API class. Would you like it to be elaborated?

Reviewer 2: > I think this is covered by the first point that Discovery is a non-resource API class. Would you like it to be elaborated?

we have resource APIs that are not persisted, but still have client provided schema. See subjectaccessreviews.  It even happens for other GET APIs, like pods/logs.

I think being explicit here will help future us.

about HOW your proposal will be implemented, this is the place to
discuss them. -->

The current discovery endpoints `/api` and `/apis` will accept a new

> content negotiation type `Accept: as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io` that represents an

Reviewer: How do you say that you accept the "former type", how will this look like when we have multiple versions?

Author: If there are multiple versions, the name and group should remain the same, the `v=<version>` field will change depending on what is accepted. I'm not sure what you mean by the other question.

Reviewer: > How do you say that you accept the "former type"

Say your client doesn't support the un-aggregated form, what would the header look like? Or if it only supports un-aggregated, or both? What would each accept headers look like in these scenarios?

> how will this look like when we have multiple versions?

If you support both v1beta1 and v1, what will the header look like, can you give an example? 

How do I accept protobuf? json?

Author: Updated to include info around those

about HOW your proposal will be implemented, this is the place to
discuss them. -->

The current discovery endpoints `/api` and `/apis` will accept a new
content negotiation type `Accept:

> application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io` for

Reviewer 2: for the non-http initiated, accept headers are normally additive in this way?

Author: yes

Reviewer 3: yeah, we use this for requesting table formatted responses from the API server today (xref https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/8db0d1a8e02b2ce127c7f20b1a1ca22b0ce24742/staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/metadata/metadata.go#L186)

JSON and `Accept:
application/vnd.kubernetes.protobuf;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io`
for protocol buffers. This type represents an aggregated discovery
document with the `APIGroupDiscoveryList` type.

When the feature graduates to GA, the accept type's version will
change to `v1` (Eg: `Accept:

> application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1;g=meta.k8s.io`)

Reviewer: What happens if it's talking to a cluster that only knows about v1beta1?

Reviewer 3: Accept headers typically indicate *all* the acceptable responses, in preferred order, so you'd do:

`Accept:
application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json`, and the server would return the most-preferred content type it was capable of

Reviewer: Thank you, I'm still hoping we can have a good behavior to say "I only support the new way" (especially for future clients).

Reviewer 3: for example, with a current API server:

curl -k -v -s https://localhost:6443/apis -H "Accept: application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json" | jq . | head
...
> GET /apis HTTP/2
> Host: localhost:6443
> user-agent: curl/7.79.1
> accept: application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json;as=APIGroupDiscoveryList;v=v1beta1;g=meta.k8s.io,application/json
> 
...
< HTTP/2 200 
< content-type: application/json
< date: Tue, 04 Oct 2022 20:57:24 GMT
< 
...
{
  "kind": "APIGroupList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "groups": [
    {
      "name": "apiregistration.k8s.io",
      "versions": [
        {
          "groupVersion": "apiregistration.k8s.io/v1",
          "version": "v1"
...
```

Reviewer: So I guess `application/json` means the old way?

Reviewer: And now that I said that, I can see that you have a dangling `application/json` at the end of your request, good job :-)

Reviewer 4: Accept headers are not the most readable...
